All right, let's talk a little
bit about index signatures.
So, and I like to start with
a motivating use case here.
We have a hash or an object that contains
a variety of different phone numbers.
We have home, we have work,
and we have fax.
Let's imagine the app we're building.
And this is the data for the app.
We have an address book application where
you can have multiple phone numbers.
Some of these we know the name of,
like home phone number,
maybe you have a predefined slot for that.
But perhaps you allow arbitrary
phone numbers to be added and
you can choose whatever label you want.
So there are some fixed things
that we expect to be there.
But we want the capability to sort of add
other things of a similar
shape to this phones object.
So an index signature
lets us do just that.
And I'm just gonna comment
this out real quick, and
we'll put it all together in a moment.
So what we're saying, so
here's the syntax for an index signature.
In fact, I'm gonna make
a even simpler version of it up here.
So what we're saying here is that we have
an arbitrary property key,
which is a string.
So that's this part in
the square brackets.
And its value is a string.
So we could do, You could do that.
But you couldn't do this.
Cuz it's saying, Look, I want a string.
You're giving me a number I want a string.
We've built something kind of like
a dictionary here a little bit.
An index signature is necessary in
order to define a dictionary right?
Meaning a dictionary would be something
that it's a data structure that allows you
to hold arbitrary values each
listed under a particular key.
So, if we put this together.
We can grab this type just like that,
get rid of that.
Let's put it up here next to phones,
and now we can see,
We could have phones.home and
look at that,
country, area and number, we do this fax.
And there it is.
You could also do custom1.
Now nowhere have I defined a field
like a property called custom1, but
the index signature allows me to do this.
You can actually combine
this with known properties.
So if we were to do this I'm
gonna grab this type here.
And let's say we always have mobile.
We always have a mobile number.
Actually, I'm gonna change this.
No, I'll change the value here.
Well, let's examine this error first.
So what we're seeing is mobile
is missing in type, and
then it lists the type of the value
on the right-hand side of equals.
It's like what we're initializing this to.
And it's saying, but
it's required in type, and
then it lists the explicit
type declaration.
How do I know which is which?
Well, here's the word mobile.
And it's nowhere in this type.
There's home, work, and
fax, but no mobile.
And so if we were to go down here, And
change that to mobile,
now look what we get.
Well, there's a mobile,
a known property there,
but just as well,
we can do work, and there it is.
So you can have an index signature on
top of explicitly defined fields and
they both work.
Now a convention I like to use when I'm
dealing with something like an index
signature, I will, and
there are some great TypeScript compiler
settings that will enforce this.
When I'm reaching for a known property,
I will use dot notation.
When I'm reaching into a dictionary.
I will do something like this,
just to make it super clear.
We'll talk more about those
compiler settings later but
it's unchecked indexed access.
And that would also that would account for
the work phone number being
potentially undefined.
I mean, it's here when we initialize it,
but I can also reach for like this like.
Right And
we know that nothing's there for
aaaaa, right?
There is no phone number here, but
TypeScript's acting like there is,
because that's what our index
signature says is possible.
So you kind of wanna do something
like this just to allow for
the possibility that
it might not be there.
But again this compiler setting
which is no unchecked index access,
if you went into your TS config,
it would convert this for you.
It would make sure that you you kind of
stick to this convention .notation for
known properties,
square bracket notation for
index field access, Gitano asks,
can we do the string or mobile?
I mean we could, we'll talk more about
like union and intersection types,
which is what this is.
When we say String or mobile,
we're really just saying string.
It could be the specific string mobile,
or it could be any string at all.
Well, we're kind of back
to any string at all.
It's almost like a multiply by zero thing.
Mobile just sort of falls away,
cuz it's it is a subtype of string, so
you end up with just string Yeah,
LJ asks in chat,
why would we have square bracket notation?
Why would we have index fields when
they're not easily accessible using
.notation?
LJ, really it's a data modeling need.
Sometimes you have a need to
define a dictionary like this.
So at Stripe for example,
in our API you would see things like
currencies represented using
an object where you might see USD and
then a number and then JPY for
Japanese yen and then a number or
something representing a currency amount.
And you might have a bunch of these, and
you want to be able to reference
them by a name, right?
As opposed to like an array of objects and
searching, ffilter for
the one with type equals JPY, right?
That's, it doesn't really add any value.
And there's no value in ordering them,
which is what an array is all about.
There's some positioning implication
there that's not meaningful.
So sometimes it makes sense
to model things this way, but
you need to be prepared for a variety of
different keys and values to be present.
It's really just a different
collection type.
Ilka asks, how do we tackle JSON
types that come with an API call?
We'll talk a little bit about that later.
And in particular, you should check
out my full-stack TypeScript course,
where we actually have strongly-typed
contracts between frontend and backend.
Yeah, Enrique, you're mentioning unknown
type, that's part of it, but also type
guards that help you get from unknown
type down to something more useful.